Final Project Folder for CS134c, Spring 2018.

Student Name: Katrina Wheelan
Mentor: Lily Shao
Project Title: Linear Algebra Module

1. Describe (briefly) the files and folders found in this project.
   README - this file, an overview of the project
   Contract.pdf - project proposal
   LinAlg - A module containing all classes and functions in a linear algebra module. This module can be used on its own in the command line, or within main.py.
   main.py - A python script that creates a more user-friendly interface to use the LinAlg module.

2. Additional modules (beyond python3, pillow, matplotlib, requests, bs4)
   required by this software: none

3. Demonstrable accomplishments of this project: 
In this project, I created an algorithm to efficiently row reduce a matrix. This, in turn, we can use to solve systems of linear equations. Other functions in the interface include: row-reducing any matrix, finding the determinant, finding rational eigenvalues, and finding the inverse of a matrix. On its own, the Linear Algebra module contains several functions that could be useful in other programs. The module contains three classes: Matrix, Row, and ColVector (column vector). Each class contains several useful methods containing, but not limited to: addition (of Rows, ColVectors, and Matrices), scalar multiplication (of all three classes), dot product (between Rows or ColVectors), matrix multiplication, determinants, inversion, and eigenvalue calculations.


4. Documentation of how CS134c staff would use your software to produce the
   results:
As an imported module, the LinAlg module can be used to do functions and calculations not possible within the normal Python framework.
In the interface, users can type a menu option and follow the directions to do the desired calculation.
Example run of main.py (user inputs in bold):

user$ python3 main.py
This is a linear algebra module.
Here is the menu:
Type 1 for: Solving a system of equations.
Type 2 for: Row-reducing a matrix.
Type 3 for: Finding an inverse of a matrix.
Type 4 for: Finding a determinant of a matrix.
Type 5 for: Finding rational eigenvalues of a matrix.
Type 'quit' to exit at any time.
Choice: 1
Enter equations one-by-one. They must by in the form:
          ax+by=c or ax + by = c; constants must be on the right side.
Type equation or type 'go' after inputting all equations. 2x + 3y =10
Type equation or type 'go' after inputting all equations. x +-y=1
Type equation or type 'go' after inputting all equations. go
Solution set: {'x': 2.6, 'y': 1.6}
Continue? [y/n] y
Here is the menu:
Type 1 for: Solving a system of equations.
Type 2 for: Row-reducing a matrix.
Type 3 for: Finding an inverse of a matrix.
Type 4 for: Finding a determinant of a matrix.
Type 5 for: Finding rational eigenvalues of a matrix.
Type 'quit' to exit at any time.
Choice: 2
How many rows are in the matrix? This must be an integer. 2
Enter each row as a list.
Row: [1,2]
Row: [3,4]
Row reduced matrix:
[1, 0]
[0, 1]
Continue? [y/n] n

5. Additional comments:
Make sure to input all text in the format the prompt specifies. (i.e. enter an integer when it says ‘This must be an integer’ and enter in the form ‘[1,2,3]’ when it asks for a list).




